# The Yao and the BMR multi-party computation

## Yao's protocol

- general secure computation, constant number of rounds, secure agains semi-honest adversaries
- represent the function as a boolean circuits (ie. formed with gates - 2 input and one output wire, a "truth" table)
  - AES - 30k gates
  - indirect addressing is hard with gates, eg. A[i]
  - billions of gates are easily computed

- garbled circuit: each gate is encrypted
  - for every "wire" in the circuit, we assign two random keys associated with the 0 and 1 values of that wire, (k0, k1). The keys are also called _garbled values_.
  - every gate, given one key for each input wire (corresponding to a 0 or 1 value on each wire), will compute the key corresponding to the gate's output and nothing else.
  Q: So, we're computing keys?! instead of values
  - this is done using OT (oblivious transfer).
  Q: are we using symmetric keys. That's why we talked about AES before?

Eg. a garbled AND gate

```
  k(u,0)  +-----\
u --------+      \
  k(u,1)  |       \   k(w,0)
          |        )---------- w
  k(v,0)  |       /   k(w,1)
v --------+      /
  k(v,1)  +-----/
```

-------+---------+----------------------------------------------------
u      | v       | w = u AND v (output encrypted with both input keys)
-------+---------+----------------------------------------------------
k(u,0) | k(v, 0) | E(k(u,0), E(k(v,0), k(w, 0)))
k(u,1) | k(v, 0) | E(k(u,1), E(k(v,0), k(w, 0)))
k(u,0) | k(v, 1) | E(k(u,0), E(k(v,1), k(w, 0)))
k(u,1) | k(v, 1) | E(k(u,1), E(k(v,1), k(w, 1)))

- the party evaluating this circuit will only be able to decrypt just a single entry of this table
- we permute the truth table otherwise decrypting an entry immediately reveals what this entry corresponds to.
- to use the output, we also provide a translation table for the garbled values: [(0, k(w, 0)), (1, k(w, 1))]
- if the output is used as input to other gates, we provide a translation table with hash values.
- for the output gate, a translation table is provided to all parties. Eg. `[(0, kw0), (1, kw1)]`.
This is secure as long as the output values are not used as inputs to other circuits.

TODO (dru) how does the public value work?!

- Constructing a garbled circuit
  - given a boolean circuit with x and y inputs of length n.
  - P1 generates a garbled circuit G(C)
    - for each wire wL, kL0 and kL1 are the keys associated with wire wL
    - let w1..wn be the input wires for P1 and wn+1..w2n be the input wires of P2
  - P1 sends to P2 G(C) and the garbled values corresponding to its inputs k1x1,... knxs
  - P1 and P2 run n OT (oblivious transver) in parallel. We do this so that P1 doesn't learn the inputs of P2!
    - the inputs for P1 are the keys it chose for each wire wi
    - the inputs for P2 are yi; it's inputs to the circuit
    - at the end P2, learns the garbled value corresponding to its input wires
  - Given all keys, P2 computes G(C) and obtains C(x, y) - the output of the circuit
    - P2 presents the result to P1

## The BMR (Beaver-Mically Rogaway) protocol
- O(1) number of communication rounds independent of size (depth) of the circuit!
- all parties contribute a seed for each wire. The keys for each wire is a concatenation of seeds generated by all parties.
Q: Does this mean that the circuit is know for all in advance?!
- there are two phases of the protocol: a setup phase where each party computes the garbled gets from the seeds for all the circuit.
And a second part where each party evaluates the circuit using its inputs.

## Resources
- [wikipedia on garbled circuits](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Garbled_circuit)
