# Introduction

[Youtube playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uGimDYZPMw&list=PL8Vt-7cSFnw29cLUVqAIuMlg1QJ-szV0K&index=1)


* zkp is an interaction between a prover P and a verifier V. P interacts with V convicing him
that a proposition P is true without revealing nothing beyond the validity of the proposition.

* what is it good for:
1. _Identification_: Alice can prove it knowns a secret without having to reveal it!
  Alice published y = f(x) and proves to Bob that she knows x = f-1(y)
2. _Protocol design_: first you desing a protocol assuming the parties are not
  malicious - ie. they follow the protocol correctly. Then you compile it using ZKP
  to a protocol that are secure by forcing the parties to prove in ZK that they follow.

* weaker definitions than zkp, that leak useless information, but that are still useful:
- WI - witness indistinguishability
- WH - witness hiding
- NIZK - non-interarctive ZK. It's not ZK!

## Proof systems
* What is a proof?
- You start from the ground truth - ie. Axioms - and after a sequence of logical steps
you get to a proposition: whether an assertion is true or false.
- The _proof_ is all the communication between P and V that leads to V accepting x.

- The verifier is the most important entity in a proof. All that matters is what the verifier does.
- Three central properties of zkp:
1. Completeness: any valid statement leads to True. x
2. Soundness: any non-valid state leads to False
3. Efficiency: the verifier is a machine that runs in polinomial time

- the proof is polinomial in size if finding the solution is polinomial. Q: What about Quadratic non-reziduosity.

Proving non-membership uses randomness (tolerates an error) and interaction (adding a prover).

## Interractive proof systems

PPT - probabilistic polinomial time.
For any common input x, Pr[(P,V) accepts x] === Pr(r)[(P,V)(x, r) = Accept]
  - the probability over the random variable r of the interaction between P and V
  on common input x and verifier randomness r results in the verifier accepting the interraction.

There are two contributions: introduction of randomness (this also adds a probabilistic error)  and adding interaction.

- Definition of interactive prof systems:

```
An interactive proof system for a language L is a PPT algorithm V and a function P such that, for any x in L:
- completeness: if x in L, then Pr[(P,V) accepts x] >= 2/3
- soundness: if x not in L, then Pr[(P*,V) accepts x] <= 1/3

Where L is a language of true statements x. If x not in L, then x is false.
P* is a cheating prover -  a modification of P designed to extract as much information as possible from the interraction.
```

Q: Why is the interraction crucial? I get why the randomness is crucial.
A: Interraction helps prove new properties but also does so in zero knowledge.

- Definition of _zero knowledge_:
```
Whatever is computed by V following the interaction with P could have been computed without it.
Except the fact that the statement x is true.
```

## Simulation

- V's view of the interaction: the values of random var r and the messages it receives from P.
- For any x in L, V's view can be efficiently simulated. Whatever V can compute
following the interraction, he could have computed without talking to P, by running the simulator.

Q: How can V have simulated the messages it receives?

- Definition of _honest verifier zero knowledge_ GMR'85
```
An interactive proof (P, V) for L is honest-verifier zero-knowledge if there exists a PPT machine S (simulator)
so that for any x in L, the distribution of the output of S(x) is the same as the distribution of (P, V)(x) - if V talked with P.
```
QRn is not zero-knowledge

## Perfect zero-knowledge
- Definition
```
An interactive proof system (P, V) for L is perfect zero-knowledge if for any PPT V* (cheating Verifier),
there exists a PPT simulator S such that for any x in L, the distribution if S(x) is the same as (P, V)(x)
```

## Auxiliary input and protocol composition

- Definition of _perfect zero knowledge_ (ie. in the presense of auxiliary input):
```
An interactive proof (P, V) for L is perfect zero-knowledge wrt. auxiliary input if for any PPT V* (cheating verifier)
there exists a PPT simulator S such that for any x in L and any z (auxiliary input to the verifier),
S(x, z) = (P(w), V*(z))(x)
Where w is the witness.
```

## Conclussion
- Everything hinges of the fact there exist hard problems that V can not decide on its own, ie. P != NP
Otherwiset V could simulate the interaction with P and convince itself. It can't do that because problems in NP are not decidable in polinomial time.


# Notation and terms

- x - the instance - what we want the verifier to accept as true (or part of L)
- _proof system_ - the algorithm used by P and V to convince P of x in L. Running the proof system for an instance x produces a proof, ie. a set of messages and some randomness.
- _witness_ - w - solution of the problem (it's not the proof)
- P, V - prover, verifier
- pi - the proof itself
- _IP_ set of languages L provable interractively.
- _PSPACE_ set of languages L that can be decidable in polinomial space.
- Class _P_ is a set of problems that can be verified fast and a solution can be found in polinomial time.
- Class _NP-complete_ is a set of problems can be verified fast but a solution cannot be found in polinomial time.
- challenge - the messages sent from V to P.

