# Zero knowledge for all NP

SAT is not proven in zero knowledge if P!=NP.

Possible relaxations:
- computational indistinquishability
- computational soundness (only hold against PPT provers)

## Statistical Zero-knowledge (SZK)

- Definition
```
Given any PPT Verifier V*, there exists a PPT simulator S such that for any x in L
and any outside input z, the distribution of S(x, y) is statistically the same as
(P, V*(z))(x)
```

## Computational zero-knowledge (CZK)
- computation indistinquishability for all tests that are decidable in time t.

- (t, epsilon) indistinguishability for any problem X statistically ideantical to Y:
```
Pr[D(x) == 1] - Pr[D(y) = 1] <= Epsilon
```

- Definition:
```
Given any PPT Verifier V*, there exists a PPT simulator S such that for any x in L
and any outside input z, the distribution of the output of the simulator S(x, y)
is computationally indistinquishable from the real interraction between P and V, (P, V*(z))(x)
```

- PZK contained in SZK contained in CZK, where PZK - perfect zero-knowledge
- "Any language L in NP can be proved in CZK supposigin one-way functions exist", GMW'86
- A one-way function is a function that is hard to invert on the average, over a random input.

- definition of one-way function: f:{0,1}->{0,1} is a (t, epsilon)-one-way if given any A, the probability that A inverts f(x) is smaller than epsilon.
  PRx[A inverts f(x)] <= epsilon
  Eg: RSA, discrete exponentiation, SIS (strong integer solution), LWE (learning with error), AES, SHA

## Commitment scheme

- committer C and receiver R
- two stages:
  1. commit: `c = Com(m, r)`, m - the message, r - some randomness, Com - a function that hides the message, eg. hash or encryption.
  2. reveal OR decommitment: `(m, r) = Dec(c)` Commiter sends the message m and the randomness r, at which point the Receiver can verify that c is correct.

Properties:
- Computational hiding: for every PPT malitious receiver `R*` and any two messages m1 and m2,
the receiver can not distinguish between a commitment to m1 and to m2: Com(m1) ~= Com(m2)
- Statistical binding: for any malitious commiter `C*` and any two messages m1 != m2, `Pr[C* wins the ginding game] < neg(n)
ie. C* can produce the same decommitment c for both message m1 and m2, irrespective of how much time C* spends doing this.

- HAM - NP complete - a graph is Hamiltonian if it has a cycle that touches each vertex once and only once.

- non-trivial ZK: any L that is not in PPT, that can not be decided in probabilistic polinomial time, where ZK is meaningful

## Summary

BPP included in PZK included in SZK included in CZK = IP
Any language in NP (including NP-complete) can pe proven in Computational ZK


