# Proof of knowledge

No every zkp if a proof of knowledge.

## Terms:
K - knowledge extractor, a PPT oracle machine. It's trying to output the witness.
`P*` - cheating prover: it's trying to prove a statement without knowing the witness.
transcript - the set of messages exchanged between the prover and verifier.
k (lower kappa) - knowledge error

- K is generic and works for any x and any `P*` so K must a property of the prover!

- K should be able to output the witness with the same probability that the prover convinces the verifier.
If `P*` convinces V of x with probability > k, then K should run in expected polinomial-time
and ouput a witness w with probability at most k less than `P*` convinces V of x.

- K interracts with the prover and *magically* outputs the witness without the prover revealing the witness.

## Knowledge soundness

A proof sytems has knowledge soundness with error k(kappa) if there exists a PPT knowledge extractor K,
such that for every cheating prover `P*` and every statement x, if `P*` convinces V of x with probability
epsilon > kappa, then K will output a statement that is a valid witness with probability at least epsilon - kappa.

## ZKPOK:
- completeness: honest prover convinces honest verifier
- zero-knowledge: ensures verifier learns nothing
- knowledge soundness: ensure prover knows witness

Zero knowledge is a property of the prover: it protects the prover from a verifier that wants to extracts its knowledge.
Knowledge soundless is a proverty of the verifier: it protects the verifier from a prover that tries to pretend it knows the witness.

## Strong proof of knowledge

A proof system has strong knowledge soundness if there exists a negligible function miu and a PPT K such that
for every prover `P*` and every x, if `P*` convinces V of x with probability epsion > miu, then K output a witness
with probability at least 1 - miu.

Eg. sequential hamiltonicity is strict polynomial time but it's sequential.

## Applications

- non-oblivious encryption: provide a cyphertext and prove that you know what's encrypted. Useful when attackers can steal genuine cyphertexts and modify them.
- prove property of statistical committed value: when you commit to a value and you also need to prove that you know the value you commit to.
- identification schemes
